# java8-features
Java Program Examples for Java SE 8 Features - Release Date: 18-March-2014

This release having a list of features as below:
- Lambda Expression Support in APIs
- Stream API
- Functional Interface and Default Methods
- Optionals
- Nashorn – JavaScript Runtime which Allows Developers to Embed JavaScript Code within Applications
- Annotation on Java Types
- Unsigned Integer Arithmetic
- Repeating Annotations
- New Date and Time API
- Statically-linked JNI Libraries
- Launch JavaFX Applications from Jar Files
- Remove the Permanent Generation from GC


## Java SE 8 Features - Illustrated
Java SE 8 with its latest updates, most of the features are listed below:


### Lambda Expression Support in APIs
A Lambda expression (or function) is an Anonymous Function, i.e., A Function without any Name or Identifier, and with a list of formal Parameters and a Body.
An arrow (->) is used to separate the list of parameters and the body.
Multiple Examples available in source code as, Operator Custom Functional Interface and Thread example as well as Iterate over List.

### Stream API
A Stream in Java can be defined as a sequence of elements from a source. The source of elements here refers to a Collection or Array that provides data to the Stream.<br>
A Collection is an in-memory data structure that holds all the data structure's values. Every element in the Collection has to be computed before it can be added to the Collection.
While a Stream is conceptually a pipeline in which elements are computed on demand.
Multiple Examples available in source code as, Creating Streams, Parallel Streams, Stream Operations and Stream Collectors.

### Functional Interface and Default Methods
A functional interface in Java is an interface that contains only a single abstract (unimplemented) method. This can also contain default and static methods which do have an implementation, in addition to the single unimplemented method.
`Runnable`, `ActionListener`, and `Comparable` are some of the examples of Functional Interfaces.
Multiple Examples of Functional Interfaces available in source code as, Consumer Interface, Predicate Interface, Function Interface and Supplier Interface.
Also Examples of Default Methods available in source code as, Simple Default Method, Static Method in Interface and Default Method Override.

### Optionals
Optional is a container object used to contain not-null objects. It is used to represent null with absent value.
This class has various utility methods to facilitate code to handle values as 'available' or 'not available' instead of checking null values.
Various examples available in the source code for: Creating Optional Objects, Checking Value Presence with isPresent() along with Conditional Actions, Default Value With orElse() and Exceptions With orElseThrow().
Also more example available for Conditional Return With filter() and Transforming Value With map() and flatMap()

### Nashorn - JavaScript Runtime Engine
Nashorn is a JavaScript Engine which is Introduced in JDK 8. With the help of Nashorn, we can execute JavaScript code at Java Virtual Machine.
Example available in source code for embedded JavaScript and JavaScript code from a File. Also one example with passing the Parameters.

### Annotation on Java Types
TBA


### Unsigned Integer Arithmetic
TBA


### Repeating Annotations
In Java 8 Release, it allowes to repeat annotations in source code. It is helpful when you want to reuse annotation for the same class. You can repeat an annotation anywhere that you would use a standard annotation.
For compatibility reasons, repeating annotations are stored in a container annotation that is automatically generated by the Java compiler.


### New Date and Time API
Java 8 comes with new Date Time API.
There are various examples available in the source code for: Core Classes to Represent Date and Time, Core Classes to Represent Timestamp and Duration,  Utility Classes, Date Adjusters, Fluent API, System Clock, Timezone and Date-Time Formatter etc.
A key part of providing this API in Java 8 is, it is dramatically easier to use and less error prone.


### Statically-linked JNI Libraries
TBA


### Launch JavaFX Applications from Jar Files
JavaFX is a set of graphics and media packages that enables developers to design, create, test, debug, and deploy rich client applications that operate consistently across diverse platforms.
The look and feel of JavaFX applications can be customized. Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) separate appearance and style from implementation so that developers can concentrate on coding. Graphic designers can easily customize the appearance and style of the application through the CSS.
simple basic Example is available in the source code to see how JavaFX works.


### Remove the Permanent Generation from GC
TBA